AP Photo/Charlie Riedel
AP Photo/Charlie RiedelPolice advance to clear people Monday, Aug. 18, 2014, during a protest for Michael Brown, who was killed by a police officer Aug. 9 in Ferguson, Mo.
Capt. Johnson said bottles and Molotov cocktails were also thrown from the crowd. He did not have condition updates on those who were shot. Johnson said four officers were injured by rocks or bottles.
Demonstrators no longer faced the neighbourhood’s midnight-to-5 a.m. curfew, but police told protesters they couldn’t assemble in a single spot and had to keep moving. Officers trying to enforce tighter restrictions used bullhorns to order protesters to disperse. Police deployed noisemakers, and fired tear gas and flash grenades.
For helping the RCMP to corral a local fugitive, a trio of Manitoba border guards have been suspended without pay for leaving their posts, according to their union.
“They should be decorated, not punished,” said Jean-Pierre Fortin, president of the Customs and Immigration Union, which represents members of the Canadian Border Services Agency.
The incident occurred Feb. 27 near the Emerson border crossing, one of only three 24-hour border crossings between Manitoba and the United States.
As per the union, two Emerson RCMP officers had zeroed in on a local hotel containing a man wanted on outstanding warrants — and suspected of being armed.
They should be decorated, not punished
With a population of only 700, Emerson’s RCMP detachment consists of only one corporal and four constables. At the time, backup units were apparently either unavailable, or located 30 minutes away in Morris.
Instead, the Mounties radioed in assistance from the Pembina-Emerson Port of Entry, a border crossing located just 3.4 kilometres to the west. As per the Customs and Immigration Union, the border’s superintendent quickly rushed to the scene along with two officers.
“It’s right in the neighbourhood — so it makes absolute sense that our officers were able to help them out,” said Mr. Fortin. “The reason why they needed three of our members is because they wanted to secure the exit of the building.”
Reached by phone, a staff member at the Emerson Hotel remembered a February incident in which the property was suddenly swarmed by Mounties and border guards looking to arrest the man in Room 7.
Officers are investigating the slaying of a 15-year-old aboriginal girl from rural Manitoba whose body was found wrapped in a bag and dumped in the Red River after she ran away from her foster home.
Police on Monday identified the girl as Tina Fontaine, who was in the care of Child and Family Services and was reported missing Aug 9.
Winnipeg police Sgt. John O’Donovan said Tina had only been in Winnipeg for a month, but was rebelling and had run away. Described as five-foot-three-inches tall and weighing only about 100 pounds, she was last seen in the city’s downtown Aug. 8. She was wearing a white skirt, blue jacket and pink-and-white runners.
Her body was pulled from the river Sunday.
Related
RCMP report on missing and murdered aboriginal women says native women are 4.3% of female population, but 16% of female homicides
Case not closed on missing and murdered aboriginal women
Pregnant student studying cases of murdered and missing Aboriginal women disappears in Halifax
“At 15, I’m sure she didn’t realize the danger that she was putting herself in,” O’Donovan told a news conference.
“She’s a child. This is a child that’s been murdered. Society would be horrified if we found a litter of kittens or pups in the river in this condition. This is a child.
“Society should be horrified.”
Thelma Favel and her husband had been caring for Tina for about 10 years. Favel is Tina’s great aunt, but added Tina called her mama.
Favel had also cared for Tina’s father, Eugene Fontaine, for many years, and when he was diagnosed with cancer, he asked her to look after his children.
Society would be horrified if we found a litter of kittens or pups in the river in this condition. This is a child
“He asked me and my husband if we would look after his kids seeing that he lived with us for so long when he was younger, and he said he knew the kids would have a good home and food to eat all the time.”
Favel said the last time she saw Tina was July 1, when she took her to Winnipeg to visit her biological mother. Tina had run away a few times starting last summer.
“She ran away twice and then she sort of settled down and she went back to school and she was doing so good,” Favel said, sobbing.
Favel said Tina called her sister Sarah about a week and a half ago.
“The last time her sister heard from her, she told her, ‘Tell mama and papa I love them, I miss them, but I’m not ready to go home yet.”
No arrests have been made, O’Donovan said. Investigators are calling on anyone who saw Fontaine in the last 10 days, or who knows what happened to her, to contact police.
Fontaine, who had just turned 15, had a history of running away, but O’Donovan said police knew roughly where she went each time she was previously reported missing.
Police aren’t saying how Fontaine died or whether she was sexually assaulted, but O’Donovan said she was already dead by the time her body was dumped in the river.
“The autopsy has been conducted and it’s obvious that this child didn’t put herself in the river in that condition,” he said. “It’s something that we’re going to hold back on and we’re not going to get into exactly how this girl died.”
There are only a handful of people who know how Fontaine died, including those responsible for her death, he said.
Somebody may have seen her. We would like to talk to anybody who has seen her
“She’s definitely been exploited and taken advantage of, murdered and put into the river in this condition,” O’Donovan said. “Somebody may have seen her. We would like to talk to anybody who has seen her.”
